This abstract introduces example results from identifying a linear controller
from a set of data collected from able-bodied walkers under random longitudinal
perturbations. We show that the identified controller is able to accurately
generate estimated joint torques with feedback control.<br />The example
results are from data collected from a single subject (age: 25, mass: 101 kg,
height: 187 cm) walking at nominal speed of 1.2 m/s on a treadmill while being
longitudinally perturbed with random white noise. We collect data for four
minutes at 100 Hz which includes about 200 steps. We compute the ankle
plantarflexion, knee flexion, and hip flexion angles, rates, and moments using
2D inverse dynamics. We section the resulting time series into steps based on
the right foot's heel strike and interpolate 20 evenly spaced data points along
the gait cycle. We assume a simple scheduled proportional derivative controller
that generates the joint torques given the joint angles and rates that fits the
following form:<br />m(t) = m*(p(t)) - K(p(t)) s(t)<br />where t is an instance
of time, p(t) is the phase in the right leg gait cycle, m(t) is a vector of
joint torques, m^*(p(t)) is a vector of the reference joint torques, K(p(t)) is
a gain matrix which multiplies the vector of joint angles and rates, s(t). This
equation is linear in the gains and the reference torques. Given sufficient
joint angle, rate, and torque measurements, the reference torques and the gains
can be solved for using linear least squares.<br />Here we present an example
result from a controller structure which is limited to joint torque generation
only from error in the sensors from the same joint. Figure 1a shows the
estimates of the scheduled gains with respect to the percent gait cycle in each
leg and Figure 1b an example prediction of the measured ankle plantarflexion
torque in the right leg by the identified control model. We are able to
identify various linear controllers that are able to predict the measured joint
torques with relative high accuracy in all joints that will be likely useful in
control design for powered prosthetics.<br
/>$$graphic_{D72F37CE-34D5-44A4-9E6B-049EB1D38377}$$
